Good morning, my name is Andrew Platzer.
I'm a... I haven't finished yet,
so... My name is Andrew Platzer.
I'm an iPhone engineer.
I work on the UI kit.
And today I'm going to talk about some
tips and tricks along with my co-worker,
Paul.
And we're going to cover some
of the classes that maybe didn't
get full sessions and also some
of the ways that you can make
your application draw faster,
respond to the user faster,
and also some other setup stuff.
So what we'll be covering today
are... We'll be covering these.
So drawing, how to draw fast,
how the drawing system works,
some stuff about image and graphics,
how scroll views work,
some of the basic settings
for that and how it's set up.
I'll also be talking about
how to display large content,
like, for example, maps by using tiles.
And then I'll talk about
how to animate controls.
So if you want to, for example,
have them resized or have
new components added,
I'll show you some examples of that.
And then Paul will be
covering these sections.
So first to drawing.
So you've got your screen, the button,
and you touch.
The system will send the event
from the sensors to the framework.
[Transcript missing]
Once your Touch's method returns,
we actually call back
into your application.
And here we call layout subviews.
This method's available to any view,
and any view that was added,
or whose geometry is changed by
either the size or the bounds origin,
or explicit calls to set
needs layout will be called.
And it'll work from the top down,
calling each view.
And what you should do in that
call is lay out your subviews.
So if you've got some parts to your view,
you'll want to put them
in certain locations.
You can also call set needs display here.
And you can change the
geometry and the attributes.
And you can begin animations here too.
Then after the layout
subviews have been done,
the draw rect calls will be called.
So any view whose class implements draw
rect and whose has been just recently,
just been shown,
or you call set needs display,
or you have the view
content mode set to redraw,
will be called.
They'll be called in no particular order,
and each one will be
given its own context.
There's no sort of shared window context.
Again, you can also queue up,
you really shouldn't
do any more animations,
you should just be just doing
drawing as quickly as possible.
All that information is bundled up,
the attribute and geometry changes,
the images, the view buffers that have
been created by draw rect,
any animations,
and all shipped over to the compositor,
and then to the graphics hardware,
and something shows up on your screen.
So you've got to remember this is,
it's three phase steps are important.
That's sort of what we'll be using
through the whole other parts of the,
the, the, the, the, the, the course.
Drawing.
So if you want to
efficiently draw content,
you avoid DrawRect.
The system isn't that fast.
Doing a lot of fancy drawing,
like gradients and so on, will be slow.
Instead, use ImageView.
Give your graphics art
department something to do.
They can draw all these
PNGs in Photoshop.
You just have to load them in
and put them on the screen.
So you want to use subviews
to assemble the content here.
So if you've got a lot
of sort of complex parts,
maybe you just need to draw a little bit,
and then you can use another
view for the remainder.
You want to use opaque background colors.
I think it's mentioned in table talk.
You know, you want to set the
table cell to be opaque,
other views opaque.
If you even have an image view,
tell us it's opaque.
The system can copy stuff to the
screen very fast if it doesn't
need to blend between the view
content and what's already there.
If you do need to use DrawRect,
there are a few things to keep in mind.
What you want to do is make sure that
you only draw what you need to do.
Don't get too fancy.
Use images if possible.
Factor out fixed backgrounds,
as I said before.
If you've got, for example,
just a small label inside a big view,
that doesn't change.
Use a separate view.
Put the label inside as a sub-view.
Size the view to the content, of course.
Each view gets its own buffer.
So if you're going to
have screen-sized views,
you're going to have
screen-sized memory allocation,
and you're going to run
out of room pretty quickly.
As I said before,
turn on the opaque flag.
If you're going to fill the
view with opaque color or
an opaque image or whatever,
tell us it's opaque.
Turn off clears context before drawing.
When we give you the context, by default,
it will either be cleared out
or set to the background color.
But if you know that you're going
to do some drawing like a fill
rect... That's just going to set
every bit with something else,
tell us.
And then we'll save some time
and we won't do anything.
We'll give you a context that's got
junk or whatever was there before.
So you've got a guarantee that
you're going to fill every pixel.
Use set needs display in rect.
That will set initial clipping so that
when the call is made to draw rect,
only the area that's been
dirtied will be drawn to.
Everything else will be clipped out.
And the system is very efficient
about not drawing things.
And use clipping while in the system.
And you can use the inside drawing,
of course.
If you're drawing a long string
and you only need to draw the
first letter or something,
use clipping and the system will
not spend a lot of time trying to
draw characters that don't appear.
And don't try to animate.
All this drawing is
just not that very fast.
There are other ways to do this
and I'll show you that later.
So some things to keep in mind.
I said every rendered view when the
drawback call is given a context.
This context points to
its own unique buffer.
So don't assume it's pointing to some
kind of window context or window buffer.
And this way we can
have views that overlap.
So you don't need to make them too big.
Draw Rect as a Set is called first
time the view is shown if the
Draw Rect method is implemented.
Also on Set Needs Display or
Set Needs Display in Rect.
Or if you set the View Content Mode to
Redraw and you've changed the bound size.
And as I said before,
the context for each
Draw Rect will be different.
Don't assume they're shared.
And don't try to hold onto them either.
There's a few view content modes.
Once you've drawn your view or
you used an image and set it,
you can position the content.
The standard ones is
the stretching to fill,
but there's also an aspect
fit and an aspect fill.
For those of you with widescreen TVs,
you know what that does.
It'll clip otherwise.
There's positioning ones where
it won't scale the content,
but rather position it in the corner
or on the side or in the center.
And if the view isn't big enough,
it will just clip.
And finally, there's one special mode,
which is used if your
view implements DrawRect.
And that's automatically calling set
needs display whenever the size changes.
So you don't have to worry about
then going override set frame and go,
if the frame size changed,
then call set needs display.
So we give you a few utility functions
if you want to sort of capture drawing in
order to make this fixed background view.
We have a special context
that you can create.
And that will create a bitmap backing
store where you can use all the UI calls
as well as the CG calls to draw.
And here's the sample code.
And the first thing you want to do
is call UIGraphicsBeginImageContext.
And all you do is pass in a size,
and that's just how big it is.
The origin is 0, 0 at the top,
just like it is in other drawing.
You'll just do regular UI drawing,
UI color set, string drawing,
or you can just get the current context,
which is a CG context graph,
and use Core Graphics
Context drawing directly.
At any time, you can ask for an image.
So you can do this multiple times.
You can draw a bit, get an image,
draw a bit.
And you call UI Graphics
Image from image,
get image from current image context.
And that will return an
auto-released image you can use.
And then when you're done,
you can call UI Graphics
and Image Context.
That will pop it, release any storage.
And restore the previous
graphics context.
And for example, in this code,
I draw a blue box, draw some red text,
and you get a lovely
blue box with red text.
We give you the ability to
create stretchable images.
What you do is you get an
image and then you say,
give me a stretchable
version of that image.
You pass in either a top cap
height or a left cap width.
We assume a one pixel wide fill and
the remainder is the other side.
This is a new image which you can use
and whenever you call draw and rect,
it will stretch the content.
So it will draw the caps fixed
and stretch the middle fill.
So for a horizontal case,
I've sort of magnified the width there.
That would be one pixel wide fill.
It'll just draw the end caps and
then stretch the fill to fit.
For a vertical case, same thing.
And you can do sort of a nine-part
image where the center pixel will
be stretched and then the sides
will be stretched and the top and
bottom edges will be stretched and
the corners will remain undistorted.
This is not that fast to draw,
so if you want to sort of draw
something that's increasing in size,
it will be noticeably slow.
Some image gotchas
I just wanted to cover.
PNG is the preferred format, as always.
You can read in other
formats like JPEG and TIFF.
We support those, but they are slow.
There are functions
to write PNG and JPEG,
and again, they are also very slow,
but they are available if you
want to capture some drawing
or something and write it out.
For toolbar and tab bar,
we automatically adjust the image.
We'll take just the mask and
we'll generate a selected
and unselected gradient,
for example, in the tab bar.
And for the toolbar,
we'll just generate a white,
bezeled image.
So you'll just need to provide the mask,
no colors and no other
custom images right now.
So now I'd like to
talk about Scrollviews,
another little introduction to a class
that didn't have its own session.
Here are the basics for the scroll view.
What you need to give us
first is the content size.
Unlike some systems, for example,
Mac OS X, where the content size is
derived off a content subview,
we don't want to require that
you allocate a really large view.
Instead, what you do is just
tell us how big it is.
There are the bounds of the scroll view.
This is sort of the
visible area of the scroll,
what the user will see.
And what's important is
the origin of the bounds,
and that's what we call
the content offset.
When you say set content offset,
it's just setting the bounds.
And so that's sort of the visible
area of the whole content.
[Transcript missing]
So now you've got a scroll view.
Unlike Mac OS X, there's no scroll bar.
So how do you know to scroll?
How does-- if the user
clicks on a view inside,
how do you know if it's
meant to be the click in that
subview or you want to scroll?
And what happens if the user puts their
finger down and then starts to scroll,
like for example in table view?
So unlike Mac OS X,
you need to have some sort of a little
bit of communication between the
scrolling system and your application.
You need to tell us what to do.
So there are two methods
that are important.
One is touches should begin
with event in content view.
And what will happen is after a delay,
the system will-- the scroll view will
figure out which view you clicked in,
and it will call this function.
And you can say at this point,
if that view is enabled,
user interaction enabled is yes,
do you want to scroll?
In which case you return no.
Or you want to handle the
event in that subview,
in which case your subview will
now start getting the same message,
touches begin and touches moved.
Now if the user moves
their finger far enough,
the system goes, well,
did you want to scroll instead?
Maybe they just paused for a moment.
And that's where touches should
cancel in content view is called.
Your content view is-- your
scroll view subclass is asked,
is it OK to start scrolling instead?
If you return yes, the subviews,
the content views,
touches canceled method is called.
And we just start scrolling from
then on until the finger lifts.
If you return no,
which is the default for controls,
then tracking will
continue in your subview,
and you won't be able to scroll
until the user lifts her finger
and starts scrolling again.
So there are some
settings that you can use.
One is delays content touches.
And by default,
there's about a .15 second delay
before we decide that the user
meant to touch in the content,
one of the subviews
rather than the scroll.
You can turn that off immediately.
And so that touch should begin
with event and content view
will get called immediately.
And so you can decide at that point
whether or not you want to scroll.
Maybe they clicked in some area of
the subview that isn't reacting.
You can disable content view
canceling for everything.
Instead of overriding the touch,
it should cancel in content view.
You can just say, no,
you never can cancel.
And once you start tracking a subview,
that's it.
And you can just turn off scrolling
completely if you want to do something,
not allow the user to scroll and just
by setting scrolling enabled to false.
Another whole host of settings
that you can also change,
just to quickly review them.
Bounces is what it says.
If you're scrolling and it hits the edge,
it will bounce a little
bit past and come back.
That also turns on sort
of the rubber banding,
where if you're already at
the edge and you pull it down,
it will spring back.
Otherwise, it will just stop.
By default, if the bounces are turned on
and the content size is wide
enough that you can scroll,
we'll bounce.
But if the content is too small,
we don't know which way you could drag.
In this case, you can tell us.
Always bounces vertical or
always bounces horizontal.
For example, the table view always
bounces vertical turned on.
So we know no matter how
many cells you've got,
if you've only got one or two,
you can still pull it down
past the top or bottom,
but not side to side.
In Safari, if you've seen,
you've got sort of like a little
what we call a directional lock,
where if you drag in one direction,
vertical or horizontal,
it will try to just keep
dragging in that direction.
So you can turn that
on for your own views.
Paging enabled gives you the,
like in the weather app effect,
where you just go from page to page.
And you can do this
horizontally or vertically,
and it will page one scroll
bounds width at a time.
You can adjust the scroll
indicator positions.
Let's say you've got
an index down the side.
You can just move the scroll
indicators over so they don't overlap.
And you can just by setting, for example,
the right inset.
And finally, there's one function
you might find useful,
and that's Flash Scroll Indicators.
And if you change your content
size or your scroll view is
shown for the first time,
you'll probably want to show the
user that there is a scrollable area.
And that's what this does.
For about a second or so,
the scroll indicators will appear,
and then they'll vanish.
The same-- and they'll appear just
as though the user had clicked.
Zooming.
So we have some basic
zooming features in there.
We wanted to give you that gesture.
If you want to get fancier,
you can see the code from the
multi-touch talk from a couple of
days ago that shows you how to do
sort of arbitrary zooming and panning.
But this will give you some
simple sort of map style zooming.
What you do is have a delegate
method that's called View for
Zooming in Scroll View.
And you return that.
And it should be a subview,
not the scroll view itself.
And as the user pinches,
the transform of that
scroll view will be changed.
It'll just call set transform
with a CGF in transform scale.
And any subviews inside that
view will be magnified or shrunk,
depending on which way they go.
There's not too much you
can do while you're zooming,
which is why we don't sort of keep
telling you what the current scale is.
But if you really need to,
you can override the set transform
method and keep track of it that way.
At the same time,
if you just move your fingers,
it'll adjust the bounds offset,
set the content offset to keep that in,
to keep sort of the
content under your fingers.
And then finally,
when the user releases their fingers,
you'll get the call scroll view
did end zooming with you at scale.
And then what you want to do
is probably reset the scale,
and redraw your content.
So now you've got a scroll view
and you want to show some content.
But you've got a lot of content.
And there's just not enough
room to load it in all at once.
And so you're going to have to--
[Transcript missing]
And as I said,
there are time versus space issues.
In fact, there are both.
Easier to expect smooth scrolling,
but there's a limited amount of memory,
so you can't load in all the tiles.
And there's a limited CPU,
which means you can't do as much
drawing as you might want to do.
So for example, for Maps,
what we do is we just break
everything up into tiles.
Square views, they're marked as opaque,
so that's efficient.
And we only really want to show--
We don't want to show what's visible.
So rather than having 10,000 tiles,
we just have maybe 20.
[Transcript missing]
So as I said before,
layout subviews is called whenever
the content size or content offset
changes or the bounds origin
changes or the size changes.
So that's the clue that you
need to relay out your content.
You look at the bounds with the offset,
that's your visible area.
So a simple, for example,
CG rect intersects rect will tell you
whether or not the frame of the tile
intersects the frame of the scroll view.
In your layout subviews,
you'll want to hide or remove any
views that are no longer visible,
no longer intersect the bounds.
And you'll want to add
tiles to fill in new areas.
If you're scrolling,
usually that's sort of an L-shaped area,
so you can make your calculations
a little bit more efficient.
So as I said,
keep computation to a minimum.
Any drawing will slow things down.
You just do a little bit of drawing,
the user will see it stutter.
And I'll show you how that looks.
You want to maintain a
pool of reusable views.
So don't keep allocating
and deallocating views,
because it's just going
to take more time.
Not a lot more time,
but it's just going to slow
down your scrolling speed,
add to the amount of time per frame.
So you can use the hidden flag,
for example.
Just mark the flag as hidden,
keep the view off in a
separate array or something,
and then it's available for reuse.
You want to use separate
view for content and changes.
Just like in a table view,
the background is pretty much the same.
It's just like the label will change.
So again, you'll have a UILabel subview.
That's the only thing that needs to
be modified as you reuse the cell.
And you want one little sort of
hint is you can also keep the
recycled views the same size.
If it needs to redraw the view,
if you're using DrawRect,
just make it wide enough for
the widest possible content.
And then it won't need
to allocate new buffers.
And that'll just add an extra
few percent to your scrolling.
But you probably need it.
I'd just like to show a quick demo
of how some of the settings interact.
So I just got a little demo here.
And it just draws a
bunch of little squares.
In this case,
what it's doing is just redrawing every
time the view needs to be displayed.
It's still only showing visible views.
But it has to redraw each one.
It's removing it and adding it back in.
And as I scroll--
[Transcript missing]
So I'd like to talk
about resizable controls.
And this uses sort of the similar
techniques you've seen already with
the tiles and using efficient drawing.
UI view animations and draw recto mix,
as I said.
Once it's drawn, once that view is drawn,
that's the content of that
layer that's underneath.
And unless it gets redrawn,
it stays the same.
If you just change the frame, by default,
it'll size to fit.
So what you'll see here, for example,
is-- but the default
mode being scaled to fit,
rather-- if I just,
in an animation block, say,
change the frame to be wider,
[Transcript missing]
So what we want to do now
is lay out the pieces.
What we'll do is
override layout subviews,
which is what you should do.
And you can position the left
and right caps at the left
and right edges of the bounds.
Then you can set the frame
of the fill to the remainder.
And it will automatically
stretch that one pixel fill
to cover the whole rectangle.
And then finally,
you just need to position
the label in the middle.
And this is useful to do
even if you're not animating.
It just lets you localize all
your layout to one function.
So now we want to animate the
pieces when we resize the button.
We're going to change the width.
So what we can do here
is either in a block,
an animation block,
we can call layout subviews directly.
Or inside your layout subviews,
you can set an animated flag
and do the animation there.
So here, for example,
you'll say set frame animated.
Set the flag.
The layout subviews gets called.
You'll check the flag.
Begin and end commit animations.
And just do the layout inside.
And the button will just
resize nice and smoothly.
The center fill will be
stretched at all times.
The system will do that smoothly.
The caps will be moved out
of the way of the fill.
And the label will be kept centered.
You can get pretty fancy with this.
UISegment and Control does this.
It's got a three-part background view,
just like you saw.
It's got three separate image views.
It's got a set of dividers.
So if you've got five items,
it'll have four image views.
They're just simple image views.
They don't do anything.
You'll have a selected background.
And we've got a couple
of different end caps,
depending whether the selection
is at the beginning or at the end.
and we've got content which will just be,
you know,
if you set the label or the image
of the segment that's just stored in
a UI label or a UI segmented view,
a UI image view.
[Transcript missing]
What you want to do is,
if you're adding a segment, for example,
you'll add a new divider view on
top of the existing divider view.
You'll add a new image or label view.
That's your content,
and that will have its alpha set to zero.
[Transcript missing]
You can see here.
And there's actually probably
a little-- I'll show you.
There's probably a little bit of
delay before the content fades in,
just to give it time for the
dividers to move out of the way.
And it looks nice and smooth.
And at the same time,
if you change the frame,
it will also relay out those
views for wider or narrower case.
So you don't have to do anything extra.
You can do a lot just by, inside a block,
setting the location of
things where they should be.
So that's my part of the talk,
and I'd just like to recap.
So for fast drawing,
you want to work smart.
You want to do as little
drawing as possible,
have everything pre-rendered
as much as possible.
For scroll views, it's a new world.
You have to--there's more
interaction between you with the
application and the scroll system.
You have to tell it when it can scroll,
when it can't scroll.
As I said with tiling content, recycle,
reuse all the time,
just the little changes possible.
Also use opaque views
as much as possible.
For example, in the contacts list,
only the top header that might have
some cells underneath it is opaque.
The ones in the middle are transparent.
The ones in the middle
are actually opaque.
So there's literally only a
few little non-transparent,
non-opaque views when you see it.
And that's why we can easily get,
you know,
30 plus frames a second scrolling
a large amount of content.
and finally with Resizable Controls,
break it up into little parts.
And then you can move stuff anywhere.
They can fly off.
They can fade in and out.
All our controls do that.
If you're going to try to override
DrawRect and UI Segmented Control,
nothing will happen because
we don't do any drawing.
Now I'll turn the stage over to
Paul to talk about the second half.
Morning.
My name is Paul Marcos.
I'm an engineer on the iPhone apps team.
And we're going to go through
kind of a variety of topics.
Andrew focused more on view stuff.
We're going to kind of jump
around a little bit more here.
So the first one we're going to talk
about is text entry and table views.
And this is a question that's
come up a number of times,
and it's a pretty common thing.
The example I'm going to
use here is our settings
application for the mail settings.
Where you can see we have a
bunch of text fields inside of
the table view with a label.
And if you've been to any of the
other table view sessions or you've
heard in a variety of sessions,
we talk about using sub
views to compose these cells.
So in this case we have
a UI label on one side,
which is static.
And then on the other side
we have a second sub view,
which is the text field itself.
And that's the editable piece.
So that's the structure of the views.
If you'd gone to the text session,
you also heard about
the automatic keyboard.
And the idea with the automatic keyboard
is that when the user taps in a field,
they'll indicate that they want
to start editing in that field.
So the user taps there.
The field becomes the first responder.
It gets the insertion cursor.
And in response to that,
when we notice that the
first responder has changed,
the automatic keyboard will slide in.
And then the field is editable.
And this is great.
This is kind of the best case
scenario where the user just
taps and the editing begins.
If we look at-- there are two other
scenarios I want to look at that
are a little bit more problematic.
The second one is-- this is a
[Transcript missing]
So let's look at how you would
actually do that in code.
When the keyboard is made
visible and is hidden,
there is a sequence of notifications that
get posted using NS Notification Center.
The four that are here are the Will Show,
Did Show, and then the Will Hide,
Did Hide.
And those are the notifications
you want to pick up on in order
to adjust the size of your table.
So to do that, you would add an observer.
This would likely be a controller,
a view controller.
That's managing the view
that contains the table view.
You would add a couple observers
to pick up these notifications.
And then if we look at, say,
the keyboard will show
method that we would write,
we have to do a couple things.
The first is we want to pick
up the geometry of where the
keyboard actually exists on screen.
And that's a piece of information
that's carried by the notification
that gets delivered to the observer.
So we have to pull that out.
It's a CG rect value, ultimately,
the bounds that we're looking for.
It gets wrapped inside of an NS value.
So we kind of need to unwrap that.
But we pull that out,
we get the bounds of the keyboard of
where it will ultimately be displayed,
and then with that piece of information,
we want to get the
frame of the table view,
subtract off that height of the keyboard,
and then we reset the frame on the table
view to make it that shorter height.
and in the will hide,
you would want to do the opposite
of adding that height back in
to extend the table view down.
So this kind of approach of listening
for the notifications and responding it,
adjusting geometry is pretty common.
One of the other questions
that comes up in the area of
editing text in a table view is,
if you have a text field
that's being edited,
what happens to that if the
user scrolls that off screen?
And as you've seen in some
of the table view sessions,
we're pretty aggressive about reusing
and putting cells that are now
out of view onto the reuse queue.
And the question is,
do we do that with the cell that
the user is currently editing?
And the answer is no.
When a cell that contains the first
responder is scrolled out of view,
that cell actually is left alone,
and it's left in existence
in the table view.
The field is still editing.
The user can continue to type and type
into the field as you would expect.
As soon as the first responder
goes out of that cell,
that's when that cell may be taken
and put onto the reuse queue.
So you want to make
sure when that happens,
by the time that happens,
you've taken any content out
of that cell that's of use,
because that cell may
go away at any time.
And a couple places that you
can pick up on that happening is
if you set up a delegate of the
text field that's being edited,
in the text field did end
editing delegate callback,
you can grab the contents of the field.
And that's generally a good idea even for
cells that remain visible just because
you want to kind of get the content out
as soon as the user is done editing it.
You can also pick up on the control
action for the field itself,
UI control event did end,
editing did end.
So those are just a couple of the issues
surrounding editing in a table view,
editing text.
The next topic I wanted to
move to is contextual toolbars.
And actually before we get
to the contextual part,
I wanted to talk about just
the toolbar part of it,
because that really hasn't been covered
in great detail in any other sessions.
One of the points I wanted to make was
we have a number of bars in the system.
And we have the
navigation bar at the top,
and then down at the
bottom we have the tab bar,
which is used for
switching between views.
And this is the toolbar
that we're talking about.
So if you can try to keep
the bars clear in your head.
The contextual part that I'm going
to talk about is if you look down
here at the bottom of the screen,
this is an example of a toolbar.
We have this toolbar with
a couple buttons on it.
And as the user navigates
the hierarchy above it,
going from the account
list to the mailbox list,
down to the message list,
and then into a mailbox,
you see the contents of the
toolbar kind of changes at
each level of the hierarchy.
And that's what we're going
to -- that's what I'm going to
talk about in just a little bit.
On the UI toolbars in general topic,
they are similar to the tab bars.
And I'm going to try and keep
the terminology straight.
They're similar to the tab bars.
So the UI toolbars that
show up at the bottom,
the visual display is a little different.
The tab bars are typically that black
style that you see in the iPod app
or YouTube where there's a selected
item that the user has chosen.
So tab bars are also at the bottom.
They're blue.
And there's no notion of a selected item.
They're just buttons that you
click on and generally perform
some action or present some view.
They do share the items that are in the
toolbar are also UI bar button items,
which is something that you can do.
And they're also a
little bit more specific.
They're not just a
They're a little bit more specific.
So the UI toolbars are similar
to what the tab bar uses.
And they have titles and images.
They can show just text.
Or it can be a custom
view that you provide.
We have a whole bunch of built-in system
items for some of the common icons,
the plus button, the magnifying glass
for the search field.
These are actually all
built-in standard icons.
So where the functionality is
similar to something we do,
it would be good just for
consistency to use the same system
items so the user has a good
understanding of what that icon does.
And you can configure these
both in Interface Builder.
It has some great support for laying
these out in a very flexible manner.
or you can do it in code if you need.
So a couple examples just to set the
stage of what you might do with these.
These are how they would
appear in Interface Builder.
So this is just three items on there with
a couple flexible spaces in the middle.
And the flexible spaces here work to keep
that camera image centered in the middle.
And this concept is similar
to toolbars on Mac OS X.
The idea of a flexible and fixed space
items that you can put into a toolbar.
Another one just with some text
and a flexible space in the middle.
So the buttons are kind
of pushed to either side.
And you notice the items can
either be bordered or not bordered.
In the top case, they're not bordered.
In the second case, they are bordered.
And then the third one shows
a custom view in the middle.
This is from mail,
so we have a custom view that
shows the status of an account.
And then two system items on either end.
So let's see how you'd
set this up in code.
The first thing you
would need is an array.
We hold the items in an array,
so we just create an array.
And then you would go through
adding UI bar button items to them.
This is an example of
allocating a system item.
In this case, the refresh item.
So you create it.
It's a control.
It supports target actions.
So you specify the target,
the action that should be invoked
when that item is clicked.
You add it to the array.
And then you would probably
add some other number of items.
And there's another example shortly.
And then you would, on the toolbar,
just call set items animated yes or no.
And the animation will basically
crossfade between the two sets of items,
the old one and the new one.
So in order to accomplish
the contextual part,
there's a couple different
ways you could approach that.
And one fairly natural approach is what
would be the wrong way of doing it.
And in this case,
the way that these views are structured
is there are two controllers involved.
There's a navigation controller,
which is providing a hierarchy that the
user is navigating left to right in.
And then there are view controllers
that manage the content at any
given point in the hierarchy.
And the area, if we look at kind of what
part of the screen each of
these controllers is managing,
the navigation controller is managing
from the navigation bar all the
way to the bottom of the screen.
And the individual view controller
is just managing the content
underneath the navigation bar.
And in this example,
since the navigation bar kind of, sorry,
the toolbar appears in the
area that the view controller,
the individual view
controller is responsible for,
it's very natural to think, oh,
let me just put the toolbar in there.
And it would actually be
managed by the view controller
for the individual screen.
And that would be problematic because
then as the navigation controller
moved from screen to screen,
the navigation,
the toolbar would move with it.
And in this example,
we can see if you kind of keep your
eyes on the toolbar at the bottom,
as we move from level to level,
the whole toolbar slides
from side to side.
And that's definitely not the user
interface that we want to present.
So how would we do this?
How would we do it the right way?
Well, actually,
it's fairly similar to what
we do with the UI tab bar view
controller that we provide.
And the idea is you have the same
pieces that we had a minute ago,
but there's one additional controller
that kind of sits above everything.
And we basically elevate the toolbar
out of the individual view controllers
per view up to a higher level that's
managed by this toolbar controller.
And the toolbar controller is managing
both the navigation controller,
as well as the toolbar at the bottom.
And so we've seen the navigation
controller's content has
effectively been shortened by
the height of the toolbar itself.
And then the view controller,
each individual view controller at
the different levels of the hierarchy,
is managing the content between
the nav bar and the toolbar.
Then the question becomes, well,
how does the top level toolbar
controller populate the toolbar
since it's now kind of disassociated
from the individual view controllers?
And the idea would be that as
each new view controller gets put
into the navigation controller,
the top level toolbar would ask
that incoming view controller,
do you have any toolbar items?
Where now the items of the
toolbar are really managed by
the individual view controllers
at each level of the hierarchy,
not the toolbar itself.
And we'll see this in code.
So the individual view controllers
at each level of the hierarchy
would implement a method that
returns just the toolbar items.
And similar to the previous
example where we built an array
that holds the toolbar items,
that's really all this method would do.
So we create a few toolbar items.
Here we have a flexible space,
which is one of the system items.
And then we would add
a compose item to it.
And then we'd go and add a
couple additional system items.
These are all system items.
Or sorry, we would create them.
We haven't kind of put
the array together yet.
Once we have that,
we would create an array with
the items ordered the way we want
them to appear in the toolbar.
So it would be the
compose item on the left,
then a flexible space,
then the camera item,
and then another flexible
space and the action item.
And that would yield a
toolbar that looks like this.
So that's all the,
just the items is what the individual
view controllers would provide.
And then in the top
level toolbar controller,
which is the delegate of
the navigation controller,
it would implement this will
show view controller method,
which is when the new incoming
view controller is displayed.
And it would ask first,
do you respond to this toolbar
items method leveraging the
dynamic nature of Objective-C?
And if it does,
we would ask for the items.
And then given those items,
we would set that on the toolbar.
[Transcript missing]
So that's contextual toolbars.
The next topic is launching in landscape.
[Transcript missing]
So in order to set the status bar state,
there are a handful of info P list
entries that you would make in
Xcode directly in your info P list.
And the three ones typically of interest
are the UI interface orientation,
where you indicate whether it's
landscape left or landscape right,
depending if you want the user to
turn the device one way or the other.
And then also depending on
the UI in your application,
you may want to set the
UI status bar style.
If you take over the entire screen,
you might want to set it to-- sorry,
that was the next point.
Depending on the content of your view,
it may be best to use the
default gray status bar or
one of the black status bars,
either translucent or opaque,
depending if you have content
under the status bar or not.
And if you are taking
over the entire screen,
you might want to just set the status
bar to hidden using the third key,
UI status bar hidden,
and you set it to true or false.
The default obviously is false.
So where you set these is in Xcode.
You can select your Info.plist.
That just shows you the
standard plist editor.
You can add keys to it and then
add the appropriate values.
And that information is used
at launch time in order to
configure where the status bar is,
how it kind of animates in,
whether it's shown, hidden,
what the style is, or whatnot.
That's why it's done in the
plist as opposed to code,
because the application
is not running yet.
and you would just add your keys there.
So now that you've indicated
the state of the status bar,
you would want to set your views
up correctly for landscape mode.
And an easy way of doing this is just
in Interface Builder if you have a view,
just change the size in
the size inspector to be,
you know,
whatever the appropriate size is
depending on the state of the status bar.
So you'd just set it to wider than tall,
lay out your UI as you would,
connect an outlet to the view
so that you can access it.
And then in the application
did finish launching,
you would want to set
the center of the view,
set the rotation, transform on the view.
And an important note here is don't
set the transform on the window itself.
That's also a very natural thing to do.
That will not give you the
results that you're looking for.
That will kind of confuse
some of the event handling.
So you always want to just rotate or
transform the view inside of the window,
not the window itself.
itself.
So if we look at some code here,
here's an example of application that did
finish launching where we have a view.
It's been laid out in landscape mode.
So we grab the initial
transform of the view.
And then we have to do some
geometry to kind of figure out,
you know, where is the status bar?
Where should the center of my view go?
Because as the status bar moves
from the top to one of the sides,
kind of the center position shifts
a little bit up into one side.
So you can use the geometry of
the status bar frame to do this
calculation of where is it positioned,
where should my content be positioned?
And once you've calculated
where the center is,
you would set the center on the view,
and then you just want to
rotate it about that center.
And you just do that by
taking the initial transform,
applying a rotation transform to it,
and then setting that
transform back on the view.
And then lastly,
since we're doing all this before the
main window has been shown so that
the user doesn't see any of this,
then you would make the
window visible to the user.
So that's launching in landscape.
And then the next topic
is detecting swipes.
So you've seen in table views
where you can have some content,
and when the user taps and
swipes their finger to one side,
we reveal the delete button.
So if you want to incorporate something
like this into your application,
it's pretty easy.
Basically,
what you would do is override touches,
begin with event,
grab the point where the
user started the drag,
and then as they moved it,
you would kind of track where it's being
moved to and answer questions like,
is it moved far enough?
Is it in a straight line?
You might even factor in things
like how fast are they swiping?
And if the user kind of starts
moving in a direction or in a pattern
that doesn't look like a swipe,
you can do that.
You probably want to kind of
stop considering it as a swipe.
You know, if they move their finger in an
L shape or if they go back and forth,
you know, that's kind of probably not,
the user's indicating
they're not swiping,
so you'd probably stop considering it.
And so here's an example of actually
how the table view would implement this,
and this is some code that's
actually taken out of UIKit.
So in the touches begin,
we just grab the starting
point of the event,
the location in the view,
and then that's not
particularly interesting.
Over in touches moved is where the...
the logic really is implemented.
And we basically grab
the current position,
we calculate how far has it
moved from the starting point,
and then in the case of table view,
we just apply some fairly simple
geometry of have they moved far
enough in the horizontal position
and yet not too far in the vertical
position to qualify as a swipe?
And then are they moving to
the left or to the right?
And then we determine, yes,
it's a swipe and in which direction.
So this is really, it's very simple.
It's easily adaptable.
It's adaptable to vertical swipes
as well if you need to do that.
And that was where the logic was.
And now the,
I believe the last topic that I'm going
to cover is handling interruptions.
And so on the phone and
even on the iPod Touch,
there's a number of ways that
your application when it's in
the front can get interrupted.
Things like an incoming phone call
or an incoming SMS both on the
phone and then even on the Touch,
a calendar event may pop
up an alert for a reminder.
And so what happens to your application
when one of these interruptions happens?
Well, right at the time the
interruption happens,
then some piece of UI is going to
come up on top of your application and
your application delegate will receive
this application will resign active.
Your app is still running.
It's just not,
no longer the active application.
And the important thing to
do here is that if you are,
if your app is performing some
action and taking up some CPU,
you probably want to pause that or
kind of back off on taking up CPU time.
So, for example, if you're playing a game
or you're writing a game,
you might want to pause the
game because the user no longer
is interacting with your game.
They're interacting with something else.
Or if you're running an OpenGL app,
you may want to throttle back the
frame rate that you're updating the
CPU or using the CPU so that the,
whatever the other interruption,
the UI for the other interruption
isn't jittery or whatever.
And in fact, the template for the
OpenGL projects in Xcode,
you'll see that there is an
implementation of application
will resign active where we do
actually throttle back the CPU.
automatically.
And then given this interruption,
the user has two choices.
They can either accept the interruption,
in which case we're going
to take them somewhere else,
to the phone app, to SMS, to calendar,
to view the invite.
Or they may decline the interruption,
in which case they'll go
back to your application.
So in the first case,
your app will actually get terminated.
And it's no different than if
the user hit the Home button.
You'll get an application will terminate.
You should clean up your state,
save anything,
and then the app will exit.
In the second case where
they reject the interruption,
your app will get application
did become active.
And then we just go back to your app.
You come to the front and you can
resume whatever it is you're doing.
So following down the path of the
user did accept the interruption,
they could-- let's say
they go to the phone.
The rest of these are all
kind of in-call scenarios.
They could go to the phone, menu out,
and go back to your application.
[Transcript missing]
In order to do that,
if you are using view controllers,
they'll kind of account for that
automatically and your view will
simply be resized to make it shorter.
If you're not using view controllers,
you may need to pay attention
to the status bar frame.
One thing,
one case to watch out for is when the,
if let's say you're in this call,
you come back to your app,
you have this beautiful
double high status bar.
If the call ends on the remote side,
the status bar will actually shrink
back down to its default state
and your content will be resized
taller to get those pixels back.
So you just want to,
this is something you want to kind
of incorporate into some testing
where you want to make sure you
account for that space properly.
And the best way to do that using
view controllers is just rely
on the springs and struts and
the auto resizing of the views.
Because then things will
just kind of naturally,
you know, slide back into place and
it'll look very natural.
And one last case to keep an eye out for
is not only is there the portrait case,
but there's also the landscape case where
you have the double high status bar there
where you've lost that height as well.
So that's just, that's the list of topics
that we wanted to cover here.
I think, where's Malcolm?
We're going to have a,
no presentation is actually
complete until we have
Malcolm Crawford come up on stage.
And in this case,
we're going to have Malcolm come
up and do a demo of configuring
tab bars in Interface Builder.
Is that right?
Yes.
Excellent.
So a question that's come up
on a couple of occasions during
the last few days has been,
how do you actually set up the recipes
example using Interface Builder?
So just to remind you.
The Recipes application as it stands
at the moment appears with a tab bar
controller at the bottom and then
a couple of navigation controllers.
So that, as you all know,
is currently set up using code.
So let's see how we actually migrate
that across to Interface Builder.
So I've got a copy of
the project then that
has an empty,
the original main window nib
file with no tab bar controllers.
If I build and run this,
you'll see then that nothing comes up.
So to this we have to add the
navigation controllers within
then the tab bar controllers.
So if I go back to interface builder,
first of all, I'll drag out into here.
The Tab Bar Controller and
remind myself then to connect.
The Recipes application delegate to that.
Now then we have to configure the tab
bar controller itself and actually put
those navigation items within that.
For that, personally I find it easier
to go into the outline view
mode in Interface Builder.
We don't now need the
original two view controllers.
What we do need are the two navigation
controllers in the right place.
[Transcript missing]
If I now add a second navigation
item and swap the order and
inspect its view controller,
I can set that now to be an instance of
the unit converter table view controller.
The other thing that I have to
do is as a slight difference in
this version of the application,
because in the initialization method
for the first recipe list controller,
we actually passed the recipes controller
as part of the initialization method.
In this implementation,
I actually have to connect the recipes
app delegate now to the recipe list
table view controller so that it can then
separately pass the recipe controller.
And I'll show the code
for this afterwards.
So that should then be all of the code,
all of the actual setup that's required.
And now I'm back in the
position where I was before.
So that's setting up then the
interface in Interface Builder.
I can actually extend that a little
bit further just for the sake of it.
So if I go back into interface builder,
let's suppose that we're so
excited by the weight converter
that I actually want to bring that
up as a view controller by itself.
I can add that then as the first
item within the tab bar controller
itself and set the class there.
Oh, and I've,
and... Just to show that demos
need to be practiced beforehand,
set the nib file for
that view controller.
So that's then illustrated adding a
separate view controller separately to
the top level in the tab bar controller.
If we look then at the
differences in the code,
it's probably actually easiest
to see that in file merge.
So the most significant
difference is actually in the
application delegate itself.
So first of all,
I mentioned that we had a separate
connection now to the Recipe
List Table View Controller because
we want to pass the Recipes
Controller to that view.
All of the code then for actually
creating a navigation controller and
the separate view controllers is gone.
That's all managed now
in Interface Builder.
As far as the other ones are concerned,
the significant difference that may
have tripped up some people as they're
migrating code to Interface Builder is,
remember the units that you put into,
or the elements that you put into your
Interface Builder file are now archived.
So rather than, oh,
did I hear a few ohs in
the audience there perhaps?
So rather now than calling init with the
name to whatever for your initialization,
you have to implement init with coder,
since these are now
going to be unarchived.
So init with coder now in the
recipe list table view controller
and in the unit converter.
So for those of you who wanted to know,
that's then how you can convert
the existing recipes example
to using Interface Builder.
And can I just quickly
get a show of hands?
One of the ironies for this for me has
been that for the last decade or two,
people have been wanting to see how
do you do all that stuff that you're
doing in Interface Builder actually
in code because it's too abstract.
and
So now we're left with this sort
of ironic position where now you
actually do want to see things in
interface builder rather than in code.
So quick show of hands please.
Who would like to see the recipes
example converted to interface builder?
And who would like it left as it is?
So, I'll see if we can do both, but okay,
thank you to John Hess then for getting
most of Interface Builder working.
The other thing then that...
The other thing that came up in
the last session was how do you use
interface builder for table view cells.
And it just so happens that
I wrote a demo for that as well.
So let's just first of all
bear in mind the caution that
Jason gave in the previous session.
The idea here is to provide you with some
catharsis to show that this can be done.
You'll see that it can be done.
Hopefully, that'll satisfy everybody.
Don't do this at home.
So the main resource that we
have here is a table view cell.
[Transcript missing]
If we have a look at the project then,
there's not an awful
lot of code in there.
The principle one,
the principle method is the table view
cell for row at index path method.
And whereas typically in this method we
would actually create programmatically
the instance of the table view cell,
here we'll actually
just load the nib name.
TV Cell with Self as Owner.
That will then point
our instance variable,
a TV cell instance variable,
at the new cell that's been loaded.
[Transcript missing]